Setting Up LAMP Stack on AZURE:

Setting up a LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) on Azure involves several steps,
including creating a virtual machine (VM), installing the necessary software, and configuring the stack.

Here is a step-by-step guide to help you through the process:

STEP 1.Create a Virtual Machine on Azure:

Log in to the Azure Portal:
Go to portal.azure.com and log in with your credentials.

Create a New VM:
Click on "Create a resource" and select "Virtual Machine".
Choose the appropriate settings:
Subscription: Select your subscription.
Resource Group: Create a new resource group or select an existing one.
VM Name: Enter a name for your VM.
Region: Choose a region close to you.
Image: Select Ubuntu Server (preferably the latest LTS version).
Size: Choose a size that meets your requirements.

Authentication:
Select "SSH public key" for SSH login or "Password" if you prefer using a password.
Configure other necessary settings (e.g., inbound ports for SSH).

Networking and Storage:
Configure the networking settings as required.
Leave other settings at their default values unless you have specific requirements.

Review and Create:
Review the VM settings and click "Create". Azure will take a few minutes to deploy your VM.

Step 2: Connect to Your VM
SSH into Your VM:
Open your terminal or SSH client.
Use the following command to connect to your VM:

ssh <your-username>@<your-vm-public-ip>

STEP 3.Install Components:

Install Apache
Update Package List:

sudo apt update

Install Apache:

sudo apt install apache2 -y

Start and Enable Apache:

sudo systemctl start apache2
sudo systemctl enable apache2

Adjust Firewall:
Allow HTTP traffic through the firewall:

sudo ufw allow in "Apache"

Install MySQL:

sudo apt install mysql-server -y

Secure MySQL Installation:

sudo mysql_secure_installation

Follow the prompts to configure MySQL security settings.

Install PHP and Extensions:

sudo apt install php libapache2-mod-php php-mysql -y

STEP 4.Start services
Initiate Apache and MySQL services to ensure functionality.

Restart Apache:
sudo systemctl restart apache2

Restart MySQL:
sudo systemctl restart mysqld

STEP 5.Test LAMP Stack:
Create and access a PHP info file to verify stack operatiION

Create a PHP Info Page:
Create a PHP file in the web root directory: -

sudo nano /var/www/html/info.php

Add the following content:

php
Copy code
<?php
phpinfo();
?>

Save and exit the editor.

Access the PHP Info Page:
Open your web browser and navigate to http://<your-vm-public-ip>/info.php.

voila!!

You should see the PHP information page, indicating that PHP is working correctly.
